	
		     git commands

1.git init

The command git init is used to create an empty Git repository. 
After the git init command is used, a .git folder is created in the directory with some subdirectories. 
Once the repository is initialized, the process of creating other files begins.
				"git init"
	
2.git add

Add command is used after checking the status of the files, to add those files to the staging area.
Before running the commit command, "git add" is used to add any new or modified files.

				"git add"

3.git commit

The commit command makes sure that the changes are saved to the local repository.

				 "git commit –m <message>" 

4.git status

The git status command tells the current state of the repository.
The command provides the current working branch. 
If the files are in the staging area, but not committed, it will be shown by the git status.

5.git config

The git config command is used initially to configure the user.name and user.email. 
This specifies what email id and username will be used from a local repository.
When git config is used with --global flag, it writes the settings to all repositories on the computer.
		
				git config --global user.name “any user name”

				git config --global user.email <email id>


6.git clone

The git clone command is used to create a local working copy of an existing remote repository.
The command downloads the remote repository to the computer. It is equivalent to the Git init command when working with a remote repository.
			
   				git clone <remote_URL>

7.git pull 

The git pull command is used to fetch and merge changes from the remote repository to the local repository.
The command "git pull origin master" copies all the files from the master branch of the remote repository to the local repository.
                      
				   git pull <branch_name> <remote URL>

8.git push

The command git push is used to transfer the commits or pushing the content from the local repository to the remote repository.
The command is used after a local repository has been modified, and the modifications are to be shared with the remote team members.
					
				git push -u origin master

9.git log

The git log command shows the order of the commit history for a repository.
The command helps in understanding the state of the current branch by showing the commits that lead to this state.
